Add CAMARA OIDC Profile (#113)
camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement: documentation/CAMARA-OIDC-profile.md

    * [Appendix A.2. Client RSA Key](#appendix-a2-client-rsa-key)
<!-- TOC -->

## Introduction

Telco network capabilities exposed through APIs provide great value to customers. By simplifying the complexity of telco networks with APIs and making the APIs available across telco networks and countries, CAMARA enables easy and seamless access. To ensure seamless interoperability and increased security, this technical document introduces the OpenID Connect (OIDC) profile, which is specifically tailored for CAMARA APIs.

OpenID Connect is a widely adopted standard for user authentication and authorization in the context of APIs. This document builds on the basic principles of OIDC and outlines CAMARA-specific guidelines to address CAMARA APIs scenarios and use cases.

The CAMARA OIDC profile includes three different authorization mechanisms: Authorization Code Flow, Client Initiated Backchannel Authentication (CIBA), and Client Credentials. Each method is detailed, providing comprehensive insight into the authorization and token request processes, mandatory parameters, successful response content or potential error scenarios.

Key areas covered include:

> * Authorization flows:

Reviewer: To define profiles, it is first necessary to establish exactly which standard(s) these profiles apply to. That is not done explicitly in this document (the OpenID CIBA specification is not even referenced). My understanding is that the relevant baseline standards are:
- [OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 2](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) for the `authorization_code` grant
- [OpenID Connect Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication Flow - Core 1.0](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html) for the `urn:openid:params:grant-type:ciba` grant
- [RFC 6749 The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749) for the `client_credentials` grant

These standards should be clearly referenced either here or in the individual sections dealing with each grant type. The individual sections should then highlight the differences between the standard specification and the profile, particularly for parameters that are optional in the standard.

Author: Direct references to the standards have been added in each of the individual sections of the flows.

## Authorization using the Authorization Code Flow

### Authentication Request

An Authentication Request is an OpenID Connect Authorization Request that requests that the End-User be authenticated by the Authorization Server.

The CAMARA profile uses the following OpenID Connect request parameters with the Authorization Code Flow:

* **scope**

  REQUIRED. A space delimited and a case-sensitive list of ASCII strings for OAuth 2.0 scope values. OpenID Connect requests MUST contain the `openid` scope value. If the `openid` scope value is not present, the ID Token will not be returned. Other scope values MAY be present. Scope values used that are not understood by an implementation SHOULD be ignored. More information about scope values as described in [The Scope Parameter Section](#the-scope-parameter).

* **response_type**

  REQUIRED. OAuth 2.0 Response Type value that determines the authorization processing flow to be used, including what parameters are returned from the endpoints used. When using the Authorization Code Flow, this value is `code`.

* **client_id**

  REQUIRED. OAuth 2.0 Client Identifier valid at the Authorization Server.

* **redirect_uri**

>   REQUIRED. Redirection URI to which the response will be sent. This URI MUST exactly match one of the Redirection URI values for the Client pre-registered at the OpenID Provider, with the matching performed as described in [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986.html#section-6.2.1). When using this flow, the Redirection URI SHOULD use the https scheme; however, it MAY use the http scheme. The Redirection URI MAY use an alternate scheme, such as one that is intended to identify a callback into a native application.

Author: The inclusion of the http scheme was only intended for testing scenarios in development environments. If you agree, we could make that restriction explicit in the profile.

>   REQUIRED. Redirection URI to which the response will be sent. This URI MUST exactly match one of the Redirection URI values for the Client pre-registered at the OpenID Provider, with the matching performed as described in [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986.html#section-6.2.1). When using this flow, the Redirection URI SHOULD use the https scheme; however, it MAY use the http scheme. The Redirection URI MAY use an alternate scheme, such as one that is intended to identify a callback into a native application.

Author: Added restriction to support http schema in non-production environments only.

Because in the CIBA flow, the Authorization Server does not have an interaction with the end-user through the consumption device, it is REQUIRED that the Client provides a `login_hint`.

An authentication request is made using the HTTP POST method with the aforementioned parameters in the `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format and a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP request entity-body. When applicable, additional parameters required by the given client authentication method are also included (e.g. JWT assertion-based client authentication uses `client_assertion` and `client_assertion_type`).

The client MUST authenticate with the authorization server as described in [Client Authentication Section](#client-authentication).

The following is a non-normative example of an authentication request (with line wraps within values for display purposes only):

```http
POST /bc-authorize HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

scope=openid%20example-scope&

> login_hint_token=ipport%3A80.90.34.2&

Reviewer 2: typo: should be ```login_hint```, not ```login_hint_token```.

Is there a consideration to use login_hint_token in the future?

Author: Typo fixed.

`login_hint_token` parameter could be used in scenarios with `client_secret_basic` to provide authentication, integrity and  non-repudiation; but we think that these issues can be solved in the same manner by using the `login_hint` parameter, the recommended `private_key_jwt` authentication method and TLS.

This topic has been discussed in previous conversations and several operators were in favor of using `private_key_jwt`.

Reviewer 3: Related issue with comments supporting `private_key_jwt` https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/104#issuecomment-1877218129.

  OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII text providing additional information, used to assist the client developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

The parameters are included in the entity-body of the HTTP response using the `application/json` media type.

The following is a non-normative example from a Token Error response:

```htt
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
```
```json
{
  "error": "authorization_pending"
}
```

## Client Credentials Flow

The Client Credentials grant type is used to obtain a 2-legged Access Token that does not represent a user. This grant type can only be used when no personal user data is processed, and it is only a valid option to access the CAMARA APIs for these specific scenarios.

### Access Token Request

The client makes a request to the token endpoint by adding the following parameters using the `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format with a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP request entity-body:

* **grant_type**

  REQUIRED. Value MUST be set to `client_credentials`.

* **scope**

>   OPTIONAL. A space delimited and a case-sensitive list of ASCII strings.

Reviewer: `scope` must be REQUIRED for CAMARA, because all endpoints will have a scope

Author: Changed to REQUIRED.

    * **_invalid_scope_**

      The requested scope is invalid, unknown, malformed, or exceeds the scope granted by the resource owner.

* **error_description**

  OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII text providing additional information, used to assist the client developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

The parameters are included in the entity-body of the HTTP response using the `application/json` media type.

`error_description` parameter is not a valid field to take decisions on the developer side, as its value may vary depending on the server implementation, language, format or context. Therefore, the developer should base their logic only on the `error` parameter.

The following is a non-normative example Token Error Response:

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
```
```json
{
  "error": "unauthorized_client"
}
```

## The Scope Parameter

Oauth scope values determine the specific CAMARA services being requested by the Service Provider, subject to the SP being registered to use those services.

> The Open Gateway Authorization Request MUST contain the `scope` parameter, which is a space delimited, case-sensitive list of ASCII strings (scope values). Multiple scope values can be requested simultaneously, subject to the SP being registered to use those “scopes”.

Author: Fixed.

For OpenID requests, the scope values MUST include `openid`, to indicate that the request is an OpenID Connect request, followed by other values depending on the specific CAMARA services being requested.

> A purpose must be declared within the requested scope for the following grant types:

Reviewer 3: You are right, but a purpose is not the same as a scope. The purpose is the reason why you are accessing the data (e.g. "I want a token to access the 'sim-swap' scope for the purpose 'dpv:FraudManagement'").

As I say in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/113/files#r1470035920 the current approach to convey the purpose and its format was a short-term agreement. There were other options on the table (e.g. sending the purpose in a separate "purpose" parameter). We need to work on a better solution.

> A purpose must be declared within the requested scope for the following grant types:

Reviewer 4: I fully agree, the purpose is not the same as a scope. It is the reason for calling an API.
I concur palmerabollo's analysis: let's go for a separate purpose parameter. If then an authorization server does not understand it, it can ignore it.

* ID Token Content. CAMARA specific details about the content of the Id token.

* Client Authentication. Specifications for client authentication within the CAMARA OIDC profile.

By encapsulating these elements within the CAMARA OIDC profile, this document aims to provide a comprehensive guide for developers and operators, ensuring consistent implementation and adherence to standardized security measures across the CAMARA ecosystem. The defined OIDC profile not only facilitates the integration process, but also serves as a basic framework for developers wishing to leverage the CAMARA APIs while maintaining security and interoperability.

## Audience

The target audience for this document is the service/technical departments of operators exposing network functions via standard CAMARA APIs. And applications or client systems that consume CAMARA standard APIs to make use of the operator's network capabilities.

## Conventions

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

> 

Reviewer 5: ## Camara security and interoperability best practises

### Network Layer Protections

Regarding network layer protections Camara follows [FAPI 2.0 Security](https://openid.bitbucket.io/fapi/fapi-2_0-security-profile.html#name-network-layer-protections)

---

### Requirements for all endpoints

All TLS connections between web browsers, clients, authorization
servers, and resource servers shall be protected against network
attackers. To this end, clients, authorization servers, and resource
servers

 1. shall only offer TLS protected endpoints and shall establish connections 
    to other servers using TLS;
 1. shall set up TLS connections using TLS version 1.2 or later;
 2. when using TLS 1.2, shall follow the recommendations for Secure Use of Transport Layer Security in [@!BCP195];
 3. should use DNSSEC to protect against DNS spoofing attacks that can lead to
    the issuance of rogue domain-validated TLS certificates; and
 4. shall perform a TLS server certificate check, as per [@!RFC6125].

**NOTE**: Even if an endpoint uses only organization validated (OV) or extended 
validation (EV) TLS certificates, rogue domain-validated certificates can be used 
to impersonate the endpoint and conduct man-in-the-middle attacks. CAA records
[@!RFC8659] can help to mitigate this risk.

### Requirements for endpoints not used by web browsers

For server-to-server communication endpoints that are not used by web
browsers, the following requirements apply:

 1. When using TLS 1.2, servers shall only permit the cipher suites listed in (#tls-12-ciphers).
 2. When using TLS 1.2, clients should only permit the cipher suites listed in (#tls-12-ciphers).
 3. When using the `TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256` or `TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384` cipher suites, 
 key lengths of at least 2048 bits are required.

#### TLS 1.2 permitted cipher suites {#tls-12-ciphers}

For TLS 1.2, only the following cipher suites shall be used:

  * `TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
  * `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
  * `TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
  * `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`

### Requirements for endpoints used by web browsers

For endpoints that are used by web browsers, the following additional
requirements apply:

  1. Servers shall use methods to ensure that connections cannot be
     downgraded using TLS Stripping attacks. A preloaded [@preload] HTTP
     Strict Transport Security policy [@!RFC6797] can be used for this
     purpose.
  2. When using TLS 1.2, servers shall only use cipher suites allowed in
     [@!BCP195].

## Authorization using the Authorization Code Flow

The [OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.1) flow involves exchanging an authorization code for a token. Instead of requesting authorization directly from the resource owner, the client directs the resource owner to an authorization server (via its user-agent), which in turn directs the resource owner back to the client with the authorization code.

> 

Reviewer 5: ### Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)

Camara choses PKCE for CSRF protection.

Authorization Servers shall require PKCE [RFC7636] with S256 as the code challenge method.

For the Authorization Code flow, Clients shall use PKCE [RFC7636] with S256 as the code challenge method.

Protection provided by state against CSRF is provided by PKCE.
Protection provided by nonce against CSRF is provided by PKCE.

### Authentication Request

An Authentication Request is an [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) Authorization Request that requests that the End-User be authenticated by the Authorization Server.

The CAMARA profile uses the following OpenID Connect request parameters with the Authorization Code Flow:

* **scope**

>   REQUIRED. A space delimited and a case-sensitive list of ASCII strings for OAuth 2.0 scope values. OpenID Connect requests MUST contain the `openid` scope value. If the `openid` scope value is not present, the ID Token will not be returned. Other scope values MAY be present. Scope values used that are not understood by an implementation SHOULD be ignored. More information about scope values as described in [The Scope Parameter Section](#the-scope-parameter).

Reviewer: Either the `openId` scope value is mandatory, or it is not.

If you are defining different behaviour when the `openid` scope value is not present, then that is an additional authorisation scheme whose baseline is the OAuth2 authorisation code flow, and not the OpenId Connect Core authorisation code flow.

So the authorisation code flow section should be separated into two parts:
- Authorisation code flow with `openId` scope value, with OpenId Connect Core as the baseline
- Authorisation code flow without `openId` scope value, with RFC 6749 as the baseline

For example, the authorization server redirects the user-agent by sending the following HTTP response (with line wraps within values for display purposes only):

```http
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: Location: https://client.example.com/cb?
    error=unsupported_response_type&
    error_description=Unsupported%20response_type%20value&
    state=af0ifjsldkj
```

### Access Token Request

The client makes a request to the token endpoint, using the HTTP POST method, by sending the following parameters using the application/x-www-form-urlencoded format with a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP request entity-body:

* **grant_type**

  REQUIRED. Value MUST be set to `authorization_code`.

* **code**

  REQUIRED. The authorization code received from the authorization server.

* **redirect_uri**

  REQUIRED, if the `redirect_uri` parameter was included in the authorization request, and their values MUST be identical.

The client MUST authenticate with the authorization server as described in the [Client Authentication Section](#client-authentication).

> 

Reviewer 5: Authentication between Aggregator and Operator API server MUST use private_key_jwt because private_key_jwt avoids shared secrets.
Authentication between Client and Aggregator or between Client and Operator API server SHOULD be private_key_jwt, but MAY be if the Client is not capable of using private_key_jwt.

Reviewer 3: I agree with supporting private_key_jwt, and only private_key_jwt ("SHOULD ... BUT ..." leaves it open to interpretations and interoperability issues).

I think it is important to omit references to aggregators in CAMARA; this profile should be about API Clients and API Servers.

* **access_token**

  REQUIRED. The access token issued by the authorization server.

* **token_type**

  REQUIRED. The type of the token issued. It MUST be `bearer`.

* **expires_in**

  RECOMMENDED. The lifetime in seconds of the access token.

* **refresh_token**

  OPTIONAL, if scope `offline_access` is not included; otherwise, REQUIRED. The refresh token, which can be used to obtain new access tokens using the same authorization.

* **scope**

  OPTIONAL, if identical to the scope requested by the client; otherwise, REQUIRED.

* **id_token**

  OPTIONAL, if scope `openid` is not included; otherwise, REQUIRED. ID Token value associated with the authenticated session.

The following is a non-normative example of a successful Token Response (the ID Token signature in the example can be verified with the key at [Appendix A.1 Authorization Server RSA Key](#appendix-a1-authorization-server-rsa-key)).

```http 
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
```
```json
{
  "access_token": "SlAV32hkKG",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "refresh_token": "8xLOxBtZp8",

>   "expires_in": 3600,

Author: The 10-minute recommendation only applies to the authorization code. If you want to raise the debate of token lifetime recommendations, it may be best to open a new issue to discuss it so that it can be included in future versions of the profile.

  "id_token": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjFlOWdkazcifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwOi8vc2VydmVyLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwic3ViIjoiYWJiZTBiZDYtYTE4Ny00MmRjLThhYTQtYWI2NWU0NGZkZTYzIiwiYXVkIjoiczZCaGRSa3F0MyIsIm5vbmNlIjoibi0wUzZfV3pBMk1qIiwiZXhwIjoxMzExMjgxOTcwLCJpYXQiOjEzMTEyODA5NzB9.opu_go5CTK3o4BesX7-hChKLvr5oOKzkH_j3D_luWCFPbejZP86tWxJDT_HxrTHvvxBgopLcYLoDOHPCY2RHDvEjyuYvejy93sUQf3YA7O58aPzlSweDbpbjARq45tjEbY5W7MHHiBcg2Az9s2UZOHY6Hpnc5cEIz4S6geD25pSiSGzmLic8kiZtP8SjDEp5vNJedOhjfEp1-xVyOGSujd9pz4jWRNnN61mq0dWwVFwD9pqdXWvyLVcndvEzXTgSLMTX98gd1wykbGef9Ud-1an37_7JFdOB5pROAZDmeLQvfCeaKy6GJF5fftA1aSlC1u-vVDuZP4Ip8zZdM5ShiA"
}
```
#### Error Response

> The authorization server responds with an HTTP 400 (Bad Request) status code (unless specified otherwise) and includes the following parameters with the response:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The authorization server responds with an HTTP 400 (Bad Request) status code (unless specified otherwise) and includes the following within the response body:
```

Author: Fixed.

> The authorization server responds with an HTTP 400 (Bad Request) status code (unless specified otherwise) and includes the following parameters within the response body:

Reviewer 5: Why does this profile need to repeat everything that does not change compared to the original standard? I think this profile should list the differences only. There would be no need having the latest change to this line if this profile would not even contain this line. (the "within"-change)

OIDC mostly points to OAuth2 error response. 
This profile could either point to OIDC token error responses https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#TokenErrorResponse
Or just say that this profile does not change, add or remove any error responses.

The same for successful responses. Let this profile name the specific changes Camara needs for security and interoperability improvements. Otherwise we introduce new ambiguities when re-phrasing what intended to stay the same.

Reviewer 7: As per yesterday's WG meeting call (31/01), after asking the WG participants to consider the different opinions presented during the meeting, the way forward was agreed to go with the self-contained format + compromise to properly note any changes related to the reused standard.

  The defined values are for each identifier type:

    * **_tel_**

      For phone numbers. The `login_hint` must be a tel URI as defined in [RFC 3966](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3966) for global phone numbers without visual separators in [E.164](https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-E.164-201011-I/en) format. For example, `tel:+34666666666`.

    * **_ipport_**

      For IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, that can optionally include a port. For example, `ipport:80.90.34.2:16790`, `ipport:80.90.34.2`, `ipport:[2001:db8::1]:8080` or `ipport:[2001:db8::1]`.

Because in the CIBA flow, the Authorization Server does not have an interaction with the end-user through the consumption device, it is REQUIRED that the Client provides a `login_hint`.

An authentication request is made using the HTTP POST method with the aforementioned parameters in the `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format and a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP request entity-body. When applicable, additional parameters required by the given client authentication method are also included (e.g. JWT assertion-based client authentication uses `client_assertion` and `client_assertion_type`).

> The client MUST authenticate with the authorization server as described in [Client Authentication Section](#client-authentication).

Reviewer: If the client authentication method is `private_key_jwt`, then it should be mandated that the authorisation request be signed (as defined [here](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html#rfc.section.7.1.1)). An example of a signed request should be provided.

Author: As far as I know, the use of the `request` parameter is not approved by all of us. This profile only includes what is already agreed, but we could add it in the future if there is consensus. Anyway, the standard does not say that it is mandatory to pass the `request` parameter if the authentication method is `private_key_jwt`. In fact a few lines above the link you sent there is an example of `private_key_jwt` authentication without request object parameter.

Reviewer: Sure, but if we were only following what the standard says, then we would not need this profile.

The purpose of the profile is to **reduce** the number of options available. But here we still have two - signed or unsigned requests, applicable to all allowed client authorisation schemes. But if the API provider already knows the client public key for `private_key_jwt`, then verifying a signed request is trivial.

Reviewer: > the `request` object parameter will be redundant for security purposes

No, not redundant. Signed authorisation requests ensure the integrity of the request, and prevent it being modified by a MITM (or, more accurately, allow such modifications to be detected).

Now it could be argued that TLS will prevent such attacks and thus render them purely theoretical. But nonetheless signed requests are defined as an option by CIBA and, given that there is no good reason not to support signed requests if the client public key is anyway known, will likely be mandated by at least some API providers.

So I think signed authorisation requests should be mandatory (given that `client_secret_basic` is no longer being proposed as a valid client authentication scheme). That would remove another CIBA option, thus increasing the likelihood of the API provider and consumer supporting a compatible authorisation flow.

Reviewer: Sure, but signed or unsigned authorisation requests both remain as options. One of those options should be removed. I propose to mandate signed requests.

Author: @eric-murray , you are using the MITM argument to refute my claim that it could be used in the same way to not trust the public keys exposed in the jwks_uri.

Reviewer: Well, if a MITM is intercepting **all** traffic between the API consumer and provider at HTTP level, then indeed that client is hopelessly compromised. But that is an even more theoretical attack. I think we have to make the assumption that the API provider knows the correct client public key.

But the **key point** remains that this profile allows both signed and unsigned authorisation requests. Only one of these options should be allowed, and my preference is signed authorisation requests. As long as signed authorisation requests remain an option, some API providers will mandate it because their own internal security rules will not allow accepting unsigned requests when they could be signed.

Author: I am not particularly keen on rejecting the inclusion of the `request` parameter in the CIBA flow. We can include this requirement in future versions of the profile if there is consensus. 

Nice theoretical discussion. :smiley:

The parameters are included in the entity-body of the HTTP response using the `application/json` media type.

`error_description` parameter is not a valid field to take decisions on the developer side, as its value may vary depending on the server implementation, language, format or context. Therefore, the developer should base their logic only on the `error` parameter.

The following is a non-normative example Token Error Response:

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
```
```json
{
  "error": "unauthorized_client"
}
```

## The Scope Parameter

Oauth scope values determine the specific CAMARA services being requested by the Service Provider, subject to the SP being registered to use those services.

The Authorization Request MUST contain the `scope` parameter, which is a space delimited, case-sensitive list of ASCII strings (scope values). Multiple scope values can be requested simultaneously, subject to the SP being registered to use those “scopes”.

For OpenID requests, the scope values MUST include `openid`, to indicate that the request is an OpenID Connect request, followed by other values depending on the specific CAMARA services being requested.

> 

Reviewer: The rest of the information in this section is already in [CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md), which should be referenced and not just duplicated here. All that will happen is that the two descriptions will diverge if suggested changes are adopted in this document.

Reviewer 5: Yes, I suggest removing contents form this document that is already in standards or in other other Camara documents.

Author: Removed duplicates from internal documentation. Right now the link to that information is broken, the new reference link will work when the new version (0.2.0) is created in the repository.

A purpose must be declared within the requested scope for the following grant types:

* _authorization_code_

* _urn:openid:params:grant-type:ciba_

No purpose is required for the `client_credentials` grant type, as this grant type can only be used when no personal user data is processed. The requested scope must be set directly to the value defined for the relevant endpoint within the OAS ("YAML") specification. "Wild card" scopes (i.e. specifying only the API name) are not valid for this grant type.

> 

Reviewer 4: Even for client_credential, a purpose MUST be sent. An API client must sign up for using a certain API for a certain purpose. The purpose might be charging relevant. If a client has signed up for the same API, but different purposes, it will not be possible to detect the correct monetization / charging rule, unless the purpose is sent.

Reviewer: The `purpose` is not intended to support different charging models. If an API provider wishes to charge a given customer different amounts for the same API depending on why the customer is calling that API, then they must do that by allocating different client ids to that customer.

CAMARA should not attempt to standardise "use cases". Whilst an intended use case is important for API design, restricting use cases to a defined set is fatal for any ecosystem claiming to be "open".

To declare a purpose when accessing the CAMARA APIs, it is strongly recommended to guarantee interoperability among Authorization Servers that the `scope` parameter is set to:

`dpv:<dpvValue>#<technicalParameter>`

* `<dpvValue>` is coming from [W3C DPV purpose definition](https://w3c.github.io/dpv/dpv/#vocab-purpose)

* `<technicalParameter>` must be either:

>     * one technical scope to limit the request to one API endpoint (this technical scope is described in the API spec YAML file)

Reviewer 8: This restriction to allow just one technical scope should be removed from this profile.

Reviewer 3: Yes, this was the short-term agreement reached at https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/32#. It served to move things forward, but nobody really likes it, so we need to work in a solution for the mid-term.

In my view, this first profile should reflect the current status of the agreements, to release a 1.0 version as soon as possible and add further improvements from there, such as a better way to send the "purpose", support for PKCE (also mentioned in this issue), etc. in a 2.0 version.

Reviewer 8: Thanks @palmerabollo for your feedback. The current short term agreements are already documented in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/release-0.1.0/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md and are part of release 0.1 of ICM.  Release 0.2 is now focussed on urgent problems/open issues that arise due to open interpretations of release 0.1. This profile can now focus on improvements. If we are able to get this review completed early with active feedbacks & participation, we could add it as a part of release 0.2. If not, we can bring it in 0.3 release. 
I am not sure if we get any advantage by documenting this profile to reflect again the short term agreements. But we can also get more feedback from others on this.  WDYT?

Reviewer 4: @shilpa-padgaonkar: fully agree, some text phrases above already allow for multiple scopes, so we must not limit here,

Reviewer 3: Thanks @shilpa-padgaonkar. If I get you right, what you suggest is:

- Release 0.2 - Include a first version of this profile focused on urgent problems/open issues that aries due to open interpretations of release 0.1. _(e.g. clearly state possible error codes, required fields that weren't clear, clarify whether private_key_jwt or client_secret_basic should be used since current docs are ambiguous, etc)_
- Release 0.3 - Include further improvements in topics not yet covered _(e.g. PKCE is mentioned in some comments, adherence to FAPI 2.0, etc)._

That sounds good to me. However, I see this particular point (purposes & user consents) as a significant topic that requires some thinking to devise a better solution this time —more than just a patch on top of what we have. That is why I'd like start the discussion as soon as possible but in a separate issue, with the release 0.3 in mind.

Reviewer 8: @palmerabollo @jpengar @diegogonmar : I went through the last TSC meeting minutes (audio recording) dated 18th Jan and @diegogonmar as a part of ICM updates has correctly mentioned that 0.2 will focus on solving open issues and 0.3 will include work on profile which will include enhancements. Are we now changing this agreement by saying profile will include contents of 0.1 and possibly 0.2?

Reviewer 9: Hi @shilpa-padgaonkar. Activity in TSC was reporting on Identity & Consent group relevant progress, not escalation to taking any decision there. Decission in Identity&Consent was to use v0.2 for clarifications and urgent issues, I think that is clear. In parallel we decided to write OIDC profile in CAMARA. Then, once first version was proposed, as part of this github thread discussion and as per yesterday call, it was proposed to use a first version of OIDC profile as an appropriate way to cover current picture and such urgent issues targeted for v0.2. This is indeed a proposal as it could be the most effective way to solve points that need to be clarified and the urgent issues, in an organized manner. We had some interesting discussions yesterday and you weren't opposing to have profile already in v0.2, not sure if you are objecting to that now, as you sent this comment after yesterday call

Reviewer 9: Hi @hdamker , thanks for your view. I didn't say anything about Shilpa referring to an escalation, I just added that as an information.
 
I think you say something correct: _the profile was planned for 0.3.0_. Then please read again my comment above: _as part of this github thread discussion and as per yesterday call, it was proposed to use a first version of OIDC profile as an appropriate way to cover current picture and such urgent issues targeted for v0.2_. Thus, I think its clear and I hope its fine, that this group opened a discussion on whether to include a first version of the profile for v0.2 was the best way to reflect urgent issues. 
It's not in conflict with existing agreement of having an OIDC profile for v0.3, which of course as agreed will include enhancements. So after last wednesday call you challenge if having a profile already in v0.2 it's appropriate, or at least you consider it adds no benefit. 

I'd close this part of the discussion and focus on way forward. Regarding your last paragraph, it's a valid suggestion (not saying I agree with it), can you put it in separate thread comment so we collect group opinion on that suggestion?

Reviewer 10: @diegogonmar I agree to close this discussion and look forward. Have followed your proposal and created https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/113#issuecomment-1940905690.

>     * one API name to cover the complete API (This API name is not described in the API spec YAML file as technical scope) – In this case the request covers all technical scopes of the API.

Reviewer 8: If we would like to continue using the wildcard scope, it should be made part of the API documentation in every subproject so that the API documentation can clearly state what it means to use a wildcard technical scope.

Reviewer 4: I suggest to deprecate using the wildcard scope. If used at all, it must be allowed only for APIs which name it in the API documentation.

Reviewer 7: Please see https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/113#discussion_r1474604755

Reviewer 10: > Please see [#113 (comment)](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/113#discussion_r1474604755)

@jpengar can you shortly explain what the referred comment has to do with the content of this review comments from @shilpa-padgaonkar and @Elisabeth-Ericsson here (way to handle wildcard scope?).

Reviewer 7: > @jpengar can you shortly explain what the referred comment has to do with the content of this review comments from @shilpa-padgaonkar and @Elisabeth-Ericsson here (way to handle wildcard scope?).

@hdamker Long story short, my comment was actually more related to Eli's comment (https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/113#discussion_r1471453854) and I just wanted to highlight why the "wildcard" scope is present in the document. My bad, I didn't make my point clear enough :/

So, my point in including that reference comment was to highlight that the reason the current profile content includes the agreed upon "wildcard" (api name, bundle scope... people call it different things xD) is because this PR proposes to use a first version of the OIDC profile as an appropriate way to cover the current state (a.k.a. short-term agreement) and urgent issues/clarifications targeted for v0.2. But of course it is still pending to discuss the new/improved solution to handle purpose and it would be properly documented in v0.3. And if decided, remove the use of wildcard scopes, etc.

## ID Token

The primary extension that OpenID Connect makes to OAuth 2.0 to enable End-Users to be Authenticated is the ID Token data structure. The ID Token is a security token that contains Claims about the Authentication of an End-User by an Authorization Server when using a Client, and potentially other requested Claims. The ID Token is represented as a [JSON Web Token (JWT)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519). ID Tokens MUST be signed by Authorization Server using [JWS](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515).

The following Claims are used within the ID Token for all OAuth 2.0 flows used by OpenID Connect:

* **iss**

  REQUIRED. Issuer Identifier for the Issuer of the response (the Authorization Server). The iss value is a case-sensitive URL using the https scheme that contains scheme, host, and optionally, port number and path components and no query or fragment components.

* **sub**

>   REQUIRED. Subject Identifier. A locally unique and never reassigned identifier within the Issuer for the End-User, which is intended to be consumed by the Client. It MUST NOT exceed 255 ASCII characters in length. The sub value is a case-sensitive string.

Reviewer: "Globally unique" end user identifiers, such as MSISDN, IMSI or public IP:port, should never be allowed. It should not be possible to identify the end user from the "sub" field alone.

Author: That is why it is explained that the sub would be a local unique identifier for authorization server and not reassignable, and the MSISDN or IP could be reassigned.

Reviewer: That explanation is not nearly sufficient. A "globally unique" identifier is also "locally unique", and many MSISDNs have never been re-assigned. What must be avoided is that the API provider just echoes the `login_hint` in the `sub` field. The identifier must be pseudonymous, and this needs to be clearly explained.

But your comment raises another issue. If the identifier identifies an end user (i.e. a person) and always identifies that same user, then the API consumer may learn that a given end user is using a new MSISDN if the `sub` field matches a previous `sub` field obtained for a different MSISDN. This is information that they will not necessarily already know, and would count as a privacy breach. So the identifier should not be constant for a given end user for this reason. An end user who changes their MSISDN should get a new `sub`.

Author: I have modified the text to indicate that the `sub` claim should be a pseudonymous customer reference.

* **azp**

  OPTIONAL. Authorized party - the party to which the ID Token was issued. If present, it MUST contain the OAuth 2.0 Client ID of this party. The `azp` value is a case-sensitive string containing a StringOrURI value.

* **at_hash**

  OPTIONAL. Access Token hash value. Its value is the base64url encoding of the left-most half of the hash of the octets of the ASCII representation of the access_token value, where the hash algorithm used is the hash algorithm used in the alg Header Parameter of the ID Token's JOSE Header. For instance, if the alg is RS256, hash the access_token value with SHA-256, then take the left-most 128 bits and base64url-encode them. The `at_hash` value is a case-sensitive string.

ID Tokens MAY contain other Claims. Any Claims used that are not understood MUST be ignored.

## Client Authentication

This section defines a set of Client Authentication methods that are used by Clients to authenticate to the Authorization Server when using the Token or Backchannel Authorization Endpoint.

These Client Authentication methods are:

* **_private_key_jwt_**

>   RECOMMENDED. Clients that have registered a public key sign a JWT using that key. The Client authenticates in accordance with JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants [OAuth.JWT] and Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants [OAuth.Assertions]. At least the Authorization Server MUST support JWS-signed Object with the RS256 algorithm. The JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED Claim Values and MAY contain the following OPTIONAL Claim Values:

Reviewer: RFC 7521 should not be referenced here because the relevant sections of that document for client authentication are already referenced by RFC 7523. So RFC 7523 is the only inline reference required.

Author: The links have been changed to point to the new RFC 7523 reference.

    * **jti**

      REQUIRED. JWT ID. A unique identifier for the token, which can be used to prevent reuse of the token. These tokens MUST only be used once, unless conditions for reuse were negotiated between the parties; any such negotiation is beyond the scope of this specification.

    * **exp**

      REQUIRED. Expiration time on or after which the JWT MUST NOT be accepted for processing.

    * **iat**

      OPTIONAL. Time at which the JWT was issued.

The JWT MAY contain other Claims. Any Claims used that are not understood MUST be ignored.

The authentication token MUST be sent as the value of the [OAuth.Assertions](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7521) `client_assertion` parameter.

The value of the [OAuth.Assertions](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7521) `client_assertion_type` parameter MUST be `urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer`, per [OAuth.JWT](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7523).

> * **_client_secret_basic_**

Reviewer: `client_secret_basic` should be removed as an option. `private_key_jwt` should be mandatory.

Author: The reference to client_secret_basic as a supported authentication method is removed, as agreed at the last meeting.

* **redirect_uri**

>   REQUIRED. Redirection URI to which the response will be sent. This URI MUST exactly match one of the Redirection URI values for the Client pre-registered at the OpenID Provider, with the matching performed as described in [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986.html#section-6.2.1). When using this flow, the Redirection URI MUST use the https scheme; however, it MAY use the http scheme only for non-production environments. The Redirection URI MAY use an alternate scheme, such as one that is intended to identify a callback into a native application.

Reviewer 5: Please keep the text of the original standard, or delete this definition because it has not changed.
I think, this profile should not care what developers do in non-production. Also there are ways to have certificates on internal servers and developer machines e.g. self-signed certs and /etc/host entries.

Author: You are precisely saying that it should be referenced because there are no changes when in fact there are, or we want there to be. In another thread in this PR you said that the use of the `https` schema should be mandatory.

This is exactly what the [OIDC standard says](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#AuthRequest):

_redirect_uri
    REQUIRED. Redirection URI to which the response will be sent. This URI MUST exactly match one of the Redirection URI values for the Client pre-registered at the OpenID Provider, with the matching performed as described in Section 6.2.1 of [[RFC3986]](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#RFC3986) (Simple String Comparison). **When using this flow, the Redirection URI SHOULD use the https scheme; however, it MAY use the http scheme, provided that the Client Type is confidential, as defined in Section 2.1 of OAuth 2.0, and provided the OP allows the use of http Redirection URIs in this case. Also, if the Client is a native application, it MAY use the http scheme with localhost or the IP loopback literals 127.0.0.1 or [::1] as the hostname.** The Redirection URI MAY use an alternate scheme, such as one that is intended to identify a callback into a native application._

And what exactly the [OAuth2.0 standard says](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-3.1.2.1):

**This specification does not mandate the use of TLS** because at the time of this writing, requiring clients to deploy TLS is a significant hurdle for many client developers.

Reviewer 5: What I meant with "don't change the standard" is that the text of a parameter definition should be verbatim the same as in the standard. 
We agreed in Camara that we use OIDC authorization code flow, so the OIDC standard is the basis of this PR.

Regarding "at this time":
> This specification does not mandate the use of TLS because at the time of this writing, requiring clients to deploy TLS is a significant hurdle for many client developers.

[OpenId Connect is now ten years old](https://self-issued.info/?p=2468) and OAuth2 even older. A lot has changed and improved.

The document is intended to be a profile of OIDC not a redefinition of OIDC based on OAuth2.
Please keep the OIDC definitions of parameters, if possible. If you change a definition, then please clearly mark the change.

I still think that just stating the differences to the profiled standards leads to a document that is easier to read and better for implementors. Please see https://github.com/AxelNennker/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/camara_oidc_profile/documentation/CAMARA-Security-Interoperability.md

Reviewer 11: @AxelNennker brings up a lot of great points. I see a major issue with this and the demand for Data Minimization. @AxelNennker did you come across issues with the OIDC Profile and Data Minimization Regulation in your research?

Reviewer 5: @garciasolero the definition of redirect_uri is different to the standard e.g. the part about confidential clients is not here instead there is the mention of non-production environments.

I read this definition as being more restrictive than the OIDC standard and I support that https is used for all client types and url-schemes for native apps. But maybe this is not the only interpretation. 
I think, changes to the standard should be clearly marked.
